>> Brian Holt: So far, we've just kinda
been executing just little statements.
If we had to do everything like this,
this is actually, there's a term for
what we're doing.
It's called procedural programming.
Again, one of those words that you do not
have to remember, it's just kinda FYI.
If we had to do everything this way,
it would be kinda crappy, right?
Cuz we'd have to write our programs
just entirely like a procedure,
and that's far less fun.
There's a thing in
JavaScript called functions.
Which is pretty common,
most programming languages have them.
And they basically encapsulate little
pieces of logic that you can reuse all
over the place.
So let's just dive right into it and
see what it looks like.
So I have a function here called
addTwo that accepts a number, right?
So inside of these parentheses,
this is all the input that this
function would accept, okay?
So this one accepts one number, and
then it returns that number + 2.
So as you might imagine,
if I do addTwo(5),
what do you think I'm going to get
down here for the finalAnswer?
>> Speaker 2: 7.
>> Brian Holt: 7, right?
Cuz it takes 5,
5 then becomes the number right here.
So then it returns 5 plus 2,
you get 7, right?
I can go down here and say console.log,
>> Brian Holt: addTwo(100).
>> Brian Holt: So
what's cool about addTwo now is,
I have this function that I
can reuse all over the place.
I write it once, and I get to reuse this
function over, and over, and over again.
Which is really nice,
because then I don't have to rewrite
this a bunch of different times.
Now, this is totally worthless.
There's absolutely no reason
that I would write addTwo.
I would just normally add two to
something, that's not really that useful.
But you can make these functions quite
involved, that do a lot of things.
>> Brian Holt: So
here's a really good one.
I wrote this function called greet
that takes in a firstName, a lastName,
an honorific.
That's the term for Mr.,
Mrs., Ms., all those things,
Dr., that's considered an honorific.
And a greeting, and then I return
this really long string here, right?
So I console.log down here,
(greet('Brian', 'Holt', 'Lord',
'Salutations')).
And so you can see down here,
Salutations Lord Holt!
I was having fun.
[LAUGH] I'm extremely that
pleased you could join us, Brian!
I hope you enjoy it, Lord Holt, okay?
And then down here, I do it with Jack,
Sparrow, Captain, and A-hoy.
And it says, A-hoy, Captain Sparrow!
I feel ridiculous reading this out loud.
It doesn't matter, I'm still doing it.
>> [LAUGH]
>> Brian Holt: A-hoy, Captain Sparrow!
I'm extremely pleased you could join us,
Jack!
I hope you enjoy your stay,
Captain Sparrow.
But you can see that here,
I didn't have to rewrite that
whole string every single time.
I was able to use template strings and
just plug in the various variables, right?
>> Brian Holt: So does that make sense?
See a little bit more how
functions can be useful?
And they get even more involved than this.
You can start doing some
really cool stuff with them.
So let's just kinda brief mechanics.
This is, you say function to declare
that you're making a new function.
This is the name of
the function right here.
So this is something that you name.
And again, try and
give this a really descriptive name.
So greet is a pretty good one,
because you know that whatever comes back
out of greet is gonna be some
sort of greeting, right?
Also kind of a rule of thumb,
this is not a hard and fast rule, but
it's kind of a useful one.
Generally, function names are verbs, so,
because the function does something,
right?
So greet is a verb.
addTwo, you're doing something
to something, right?
So a function is generally a verb.
Whereas variable names are typically
nouns, because it represents a thing.
So firstName is a thing,
lastName is a thing, honorific is a thing.
So generally, variables are nouns.
Generally, functions are verbs.
>> Brian Holt: There's no one,
there's nothing that's gonna
make you do it that way.
It's just a useful practice to get into.
>> Brian Holt: Let's talk
about how you call functions.
So whenever you invoke a function,
whenever you're using a function,
the way that you say that is
you are calling a function.
I don't actually really
know where that came from.
That's just the name for it.
Or you can say invoke, but
generally, people say call.
The way you do that is you
put parentheses after it.
So even if this took in nothing,
>> Brian Holt: You would just do this.
>> Brian Holt: Let's just say this is 5.
So even if I'm not giving it anything,
you just put empty parentheses at
the end to signify that you
are calling the function.
So that's what those
parentheses at the end mean.
It means that a function is being invoked.
That make sense?
Okay, that'll become important later,
because you can actually pass
around functions as well.
We'll see how that works in a bit.
But you do need to put the parentheses
there if you're intending to call it.
If I just put addTwo right here,
this is not useful.
Because actually what happens is,
now finalAnswer actually
represents the function, addTwo.
And it's not actually
invoking the function.
It's a little confusing, but
now finalAnswer is actually the function.
So I can call finalAnswer,
which then will call the function.
Again, we'll get there.
If that doesn't make a ton of sense,
I have a section on this.
So make sure you're putting parentheses.
>> Brian Holt: Okay.
>> Brian Holt: Call, yeah,
that's called calling a function.
And just look out for parentheses.
Anytime you see parentheses, you know that
functions are being invoked somewhere.
For example, notice that console.log here,
right, you put parentheses there.
Log is a function,
it's a function that's being called.
>> Brian Holt: Okay, so logOutYourHome,
this is another function that I wrote.
I put my HomeCity, HomeState, HomeCountry.
And then I call logOutYourHome here.
I call it with myHomeCity,
myHomeState, and myHomeCountry, right?
And then this gets passed
into logOutYourHome, right,
as city, state, and country.
I'm calling console.log here.
But I could have just as easily said
logOutYourHome with, I don't know,
you could have said Torino,
which is in Piemonte, and Italy.
>> Brian Holt: You are from Torino,
Piemonte Italy.
I guess, make that Italia,
cuz I did it in Italian.
>> Brian Holt: Right?
>> Brian Holt: So you can either pass
variables into there, that works, or
you can put strings directly in there.
Both of those things work,
because myHomeCity represents a string.
So that these things, you can put
either the representation of it, or
you can put the direct raw data in there.
Both of those work.